# DNA-Classification-by-IBM-Granite-Model
DNA Classification using synthetic dataset on training the IBM Granite Model

In this project, the goals is to make IBM Granite Model can classify DNA by the class label such as human, bacteria, virus, and plant, and disease risk by parameters such as kmers-3 freq and mutation status which classify to low, medium, and high potential risk.
From easier way to classify DNA, we can make more fast dan large prediction about DNA theory and relationship between protein component, mutation status, long sequence of DNA with disease risk 

This Project use raw synthetic dataset generated by AI. Datase can be acces s by kaggle on this link. https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/miadul/dna-classification-dataset

The insight is new to me because never try to training and testing with LLM such as IBM Granite Model.
From the analysis, fine tuning parameters give big chance to how model see and understood the dataset and task. But because limited of resource on IBM Granite Model, I can’t much fine tuning the parameters. But from the result show with fine tuning the model give response almost completed in first fifty dna data. Which the base parameter give model response unknown. Even though it give not unknown response in fine tuning version, the precision and accuracy still not good and need more improvement.

In this project, AI or Artificial Intelligence very impactful to make the code easier and made decision such as predict and classify faster but relliable. With AI, study will become more complex and deep but with easy way to make benefit in humans life
